hi I'm Michael rouse vice president of
philanthropy and community affairs at
toyota motor sales USA i want to take a
few minutes to introduce you to the
toyota driving expectations program our
goal from the start has been to provide
young drivers with the critical skills
and knowledge to handle actual driving
situations and to give parents some
guidelines on how to be an effective
driving coach and mentor we work closely
with many organizations including the
National Safety Council and local law
enforcement agencies to ensure we do
everything we can to support both teens
and parents in developing safe and
responsible driving habits since 2004
Toyota has been offering Toyota driving
expectations in communities around the
country why statistics show that teen
drivers are more than twice as likely to
be involved in a fatal accident than the
average driver nationwide Toyota driving
expectations was developed to step
beyond a defensive driving experience
and to work with parents of teens to
become better role models and driving
coaches studies have shown that parents
who remain active with their driving
teens will decrease their teens odds of
becoming a fatal statistic the program
combines classroom style instruction and
real-world driving experiences for teen
drivers teens experience hands-on
learning with professional drivers in
areas such as accident avoidance ABS
braking and the dangers of distracted
driving
this is to show you that a distraction
doesn't have to be a cowbell after going
through this course the most fun part
was driving while being distracted
because no one was harmed when it's just
cones around but then you know in
reality you really have to be aware of
your surroundings yeah I experienced the
same thing with distractions I was a
terrible driver I didn't realize how the
structures can be such a influence on
when you're driving you know but you're
gonna try it okay teens look deep in
your parents eyes have a good look at
them because in 10 or 20 years this is
exactly what you're going to look like
not only do teens grow up looking like
their parents but they grow up driving
like them as well parents have a crucial
role and teaching their kids how to
drive they they need to be coaches but
to be a good coach you first have to be
a good role model and that starts even
when your children are younger you know
set a good example don't talk on the
phone they're gonna model your behavior
so set a good example right away and
then this program driving expectations
gives great support to the parents on
how to take themselves out of the
parenting role and step into a coaching
role okay in here what we're going to
talk about is the goals Matt motivating
managing and negotiating with your teen
driver in the end everyone who
participates in Toyota driving
expectations becomes a true safe driving
advocate making our roads safer each and
every day thank you very much and I hope
you find toyota driving expectations
worthwhile and enjoyable
you